SALLUs'r’s STYLE. xiii

Ι. Variety of expression, as seen (a) in the use of differ-
ent forms of the same word, e.g. domi and domui, locative3
(b) in the government of different cases by the same word,
thus expers is followed by both the genitive and the abla-
tive in the same sentence3 (c) in an entim change of con-
struction, as Eis amicis sociisque confisus Catilina, simul
quod, etc.; (d) in the combination of both singular and
plural verbs with a single subject, cf. iuventas . . . favebat

. . malebam& (e) in the alteration of stereotyped expres-
sionS, as mari atquc terra, for terra marique ,· (f) in coup- ·
ling an adverb with an abstract noun governed by per, as
honeste . . . per tumsscadinm.

ΙΙ. Repetition, (α) of introductory words like i9itur,·
(b) of any rare word shortly after its first occurrence·

III. Brevity, produced partly by the omission of con·
nectives and forms of the verb sum, and partly by a short,
pithy manner of expression.

IV. Frequency of the historical infinitive‚ in order to
carry the action swiftly and ,strongly to a dramatic con-
clusion.

V. Constant alliteration, as facinus . . . faceret.

VI. ChiasmuS, as viqet aetas, animus valet.

VII. ArchaismS, (α) in spelling; (b) in obsolete words. ¹
These, however, are not so common as to disturb the reader.
They give a certain quaintness to the narrative, which is
more pleasing than otherwise. Most of the archaisms occur
in the speeches‚ and invest them with dignity and state-
liness„

VIII. CoquuialismS. Sallust often drew upon the vig-
orous every-day speech of the people, but never resorted to
anything that could be called vulgar.

